# AWS-DeepRacer-RL
## Reinforcement Learning with AWS DeepRacer

In the current age of technology, engineers are constantly looking for new ways to automate technology and human processes. Machine learning and artificial intelligence have been leading the charge as of late in reducing our own input and intervention in our daily lives. One area of automation that machine learning is being applied to is in autonomous driving or self-driving vehicles, in which a vehicle by sensing its environment is able to drive on its own without human assistance or control. Autonomous driving provides an alternative solution to preventing vehicle accidents and reducing emission of carbon dioxide. Supervised learning has been used in the past with self-driving cars, but the use of labeled training data inherently requires human bias that autonomous driving is supposed to avoid. Recently, one method has come to the forefront as a new potential solution to cars driving without needing humans behind the wheel: reinforcement learning.

Reinforcement learning is a type of machine learning that unlike supervised learning does not use labeled training data. Instead, reinforcement learning involves an intelligent agent that performs specific tasks within an environment. The agent is then either rewarded or punished via a “reward function” based on how well it is able to perform its tasks. In a given situation or “environment state”, the agent will perform an action from a set of possible choices called an “action space” based on a strategy called a “policy”, which will either help or hinder it in completing its tasks. If the agent performs well, it will be rewarded through the reward function, which will make it more inclined to perform similar actions in the future and thus make it more successful at performing its tasks. Conversely, if the agent performs poorly, the reward function will penalize the agent so that it is less inclined to perform similar actions in the future. The agent works to take actions that will maximize its total reward, and it is through this system of rewards and penalties that the agent learns to successfully perform tasks within its environment.

To test the effectiveness and viability of reinforcement learning in autonomous driving, we chose Amazon Web Service’s (AWS) DeepRacer vehicle to be our agent. AWS DeepRacer is an autonomous 1/18th scale race car designed to test RL models by racing on a physical track. The car uses a camera to view the environment of the track and a reinforcement learning model to guide its speed and direction. Through training the miniature race car with a customizable reward function, the car learns to properly drive on a track and stay on course. AWS DeepRacer allows students to construct their own tracks for their cars to drive on and provides an online portal to train their models with. The program also provides students and educators the opportunity to put their DeepRacer cars to the test and race them against other DeepRacers around the world in real-life competitions.

Our goal for this project was to train a reinforcement learning model that would allow the AWS DeepRacer car to successfully perform multiple laps around a track while staying within the driving lane at all times. We also hoped by customizing our reward functions to learn more about what goes into creating effective reward functions in reinforcement learning. Ultimately, we wanted to test the potential of using reinforcement learning for autonomous driving on a small scale, which may have implications for autonomous driving with standard-sized vehicles.
